---
title: "Enhancing Misalignment Tolerance in Hybrid Wireless Power Transfer System With Integrated Coupler via Frequency Tuning"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-6-20
excerpt: 'This paper proposes a high-efficiency underwater hybrid wireless power transfer (UHWPT) system with low plate voltage stresses to ensure a safe and stable power supply for underwater electrical equipment. The power transfer channel is constituted by an integrated magnetic-electric coupler, formed by nesting coils into C-shaped plates and integrating them into the LC-compensated topology. The impact of the geometric dimensions and insulation on electrical parameters is explored to provide a reference basis for designing the integrated magnetic-electric coupler. A system design method based on the double optimization parameters is hereby proposed. Then, an experimental prototype is set up to verify the feasibility of the design method. Experimental results show that the system achieves the load-independent constant current (CC) output with a maximum efficiency of 87.8%.'
date: 2024-6-20
venue: 'IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics'
slidesurl: 'http://fengxian-wang.github.io/files/Slidesur-A-High Efficiency Underwater Hybrid Wireless Power Transfer System with Low Plate Voltage Stresses.pdf'
paperurl: 'http://fengxian-wang.github.io/files/Paper-A-High Efficiency Underwater Hybrid Wireless Power Transfer System with Low Plate Voltage Stresses.pdf'
citation: 'Xian Zhang, Guangyao Li, Ting Chen, Fengxian Wang*, Qingxin Yang, Weida Xu. A High-Efficiency Underwater Hybrid Wireless Power Transfer System with Low Plate Voltage Stresses. <i>IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics</i>. Early Access.'
---

 **DOI link:**
  [10.1109/TPEL.2024.3392375](https://doi.org/10.1109/TPEL.2024.3392375)
[10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3015278](https://doi.org/10.1109/access.2020.3015278)



**Keywords:**
Wireless Power Transfer, Failure Analysis, Electromagnetic Force, Stress Distribution, Smoothing Scheme.



**What - Clarification of the Core Content:**



- This study investigates the electromagnetic force (EMF) distribution within the coupling mechanism of a wireless power transfer (WPT) system during fault conditions, focusing on the impact of such forces.
- The study emphasizes the importance of the safe and stable operation of WPT systems, especially under fault conditions that intensify the influence of EMF.
- The series to series (SS) compensation structure is used as an example to analyze the WPT system's electrical parameters during typical faults.
- It identifies that an open load fault affects the system the most, leading to damage to magnetic shielding structures and coil deformations.
- A mathematical model combining field-path coupling and Maxwell stress methods is established to calculate the EMF of the WPT system.



**Why - Analysis of the Purpose:**

- The open circuit fault is crucial to study due to its potential to cause significant current oscillations in the system, resulting in increased EMF.
- The study aims to provide theoretical support for the optimal design of the coupling mechanism in WPT systems to mitigate the adverse effects of EMF during faults.



**How - Description of the Methods Used:**

- A simulation model is constructed to analyze the magnetic induction strength and surface stress distribution of the system.
- Experimental validation is executed, confirming theoretical predictions of EMF distribution when subjected to faults.
- A variable-turn-pitch planar coil is introduced as a smoothing scheme to control the magnetic induction strength distribution and reduce EMF.



**Key Findings and Insights:**

- The study found that the magnetic induction strength and surface stress were consistent, and both were related to the distribution of the coil currents.
- The EMF amplitude ratio before and after the fault is about the square of the fault current ratio, indicating a significant increase in EMF during faults.
- The experimental results are in line with the simulated findings, substantiating the theoretical modeling approach.



**Examples of Critical Solutions Proposed:**

- The introduced variable-turn-pitch planar coil, enhanced using the SNOPT algorithm, had a notable effect, reducing the force on the transmission-side coupling mechanism under open circuit faults by 86.24% when compared to equi-turn-pitch planar coils.

- The study demonstrates the practicality of the proposed smoothing scheme by showing the restraint capability of the optimized coil structure.

  

**Research Gaps and Future Work:**

- While the study delves into the EMF during specific fault conditions, the analysis of other potential faults and conditions affecting WPT systems is suggested for future research.
- The study's results offer a foundation for further exploration into structural optimization and material science to enhance WPT system resilience against EMF.
